README.md, before:

# FrameOS - smart home frames

This is beyond-alpha level software. It's not meant to work for anyone other than myself.

## Hardware 

Grab yourself a

- [Inky Impression 5.7"](https://shop.pimoroni.com/products/inky-impression-5-7?variant=32298701324371)
- [Inky Impression 7.3"](https://shop.pimoroni.com/products/inky-impression-7-3?variant=40512683376723)

And:

- [Raspberry Pi Zero W](https://shop.pimoroni.com/products/raspberry-pi-zero-w?variant=39458414264403)

Get it with presoldered headers, or solder them yourself.

## Raspberry setup 

Then Install [Raspberry Pi OS Lite](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspberry-pi-os/) on a SD card (flash with [etcher](https://etcher.io/)). Remount the drive and edit the following files:

- `boot/ssh` - just create an empty file
- `boot/wpa_supplicant.conf`

```conf
country=US # Your 2-digit country code
ctrl_interface=DIR=/var/run/wpa_supplicant GROUP=netdev
update_config=1
network={
    ssid="YOUR_NETWORK_NAME"
    psk="YOUR_PASSWORD"
    key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
    scan_ssid=1
}
```

Upon boot run `raspi-config` and:

1. change the password
4. change the hostname
2. enable spi
3. enable i2c

Update software as normal, also install `python3-pip`

Get the pimoroni software installed with examples:

```
curl https://get.pimoroni.com/inky | bash
```

If that's happy, all the dependencies should be installed.

# FrameOS Control Panel

Getting started:

```bash
python3 -m venv env
source env/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
cd frontend && npm install && cd ..
honcho start
```

## Updating models

```bash
# create migration after changing a model
flask db migrate -m "something changed"
# apply the migrations
flask db upgrade
```

Commit message:

wheelds first, add pip, update readme

README.md, after:

# FrameOS - smart home frames

This is beta level software. Obvious things are missing.

## Required hardware 

Grab yourself a

- [Inky Impression 5.7"](https://shop.pimoroni.com/products/inky-impression-5-7?variant=32298701324371)
- [Inky Impression 7.3"](https://shop.pimoroni.com/products/inky-impression-7-3?variant=40512683376723)

And:

- [Raspberry Pi Zero W](https://shop.pimoroni.com/products/raspberry-pi-zero-w?variant=39458414264403)

Get it with presoldered headers, or solder them yourself. Attach the two devices.

## Raspberry setup 

Download the [Raspberry Pi Imager](https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/)

- Select [Raspberry Pi OS Lite](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspberry-pi-os/) debian `bullseye`. Select 32-bit if you have the zero w v1, otherwise select 64 bit.
- Click the "Gear" icon. Answer yes for the WiFi password popup if asked. Set:
- Change the hostname to something unique, like `raam7.local`
- Enable SSH with password. Set a strong user/password and note it down in your password manager.
- Make sure the wifi user/password is correct.

Plug in the raspberry, and wait until you can connect to it:

```bash
ping raam7.local
ssh raam@raam7.local
```

Optional, install tailscale

```bash
curl -fsSL https://tailscale.com/install.sh | sh
```



Upon boot run `raspi-config` and:

1. change the password
4. change the hostname
2. enable spi
3. enable i2c

Update software as normal, also install `python3-pip`

Get the pimoroni software installed with examples:

```
curl https://get.pimoroni.com/inky | bash
```

If that's happy, all the dependencies should be installed.

# FrameOS Control Panel

Getting started:

```bash
python3 -m venv env
source env/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
cd frontend && npm install && cd ..
honcho start
```

## Updating models

```bash
# create migration after changing a model
flask db migrate -m "something changed"
# apply the migrations
flask db upgrade
```
